{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\par
Interview Questions And Answers Of Cloud Computing And Microsoft Azure\par
\par
\par
\par
Question 1: What is Cloud Computing?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Cloud computing is internet-based computing whereby shared resources, software, and information are provided to computers and other devices on-demand, like the electricity grid.\par
\par
Cloud computing is a culmination of numerous attempts at large-scale computing with seamless access to virtually limitless resources.\par
\par
Cloud Computing = Software as a Service + Platform as a Service + Infrastructure as a Service.\par
\par
Cloud Computing\par
\par
A number of characteristics define cloud data, applications services, and infrastructure:\par
Remotely hosted: Services or data are hosted on a remote infrastructure.\par
Ubiquitous: Services or data are available from anywhere.\par
Commodified: The result is a utility computing model similar to traditional utilities, like gas and electricity; you pay for what you need!\par
Cloud computing can be categorized into three parts:\par
\par
Platform as a Service (PaaS)\par
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)\par
Software as a Service (SaaS)\par
For more details go to the following link:\par
\par
Introduction to Cloud Computing\par
Question 2: What are the components of Cloud Computing?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Components in a cloud refer to the platforms, like front end, back end, and cloud-based delivery and the network  used. All together it forms an architecture for cloud computing. With the main components like SAAS, PAAS and IAAS there are 11 more major categories in cloud computing that are:\par
\par
Storage-as-a-Service: This is the component where we can use or request storage. It is also called disk space on demand.\par
\par
Database-as-a-Service: This component acts as a live database from remote.\par
\par
Information-as-a-Service: Information that can be accessed remotely from anywhere is called Information-as-a-Service.\par
\par
Process-as-a-Service: This component combines various resources such as data and services. This happens either hosted within the same cloud computing resource or remote.\par
\par
Application-as-a-Service: Application-as-a-Service (also known as SAAS) is the complete application built ready for use by the client.\par
\par
Platform-as-a-Service: This is the component where the app is being developed and the database is being created, implemented, stored and tested.\par
\par
Integration-as-a-Service: Integration-as-a-Service deals with the components of an application that has been built but must be integrated with other applications. \par
\par
Security-as-a-Service: This is the main component many customers require. There are three-dimensional securities found in cloud platforms.\par
\par
Management-as-a-service: This is a component that is mainly useful for management of the clouds, like resource utilization, virtualization and server up and down time management.\par
\par
Testing-as-a-Service: Testing-as-a-Service refers to the testing of the applications that are hosted remotely.\par
\par
Infrastructure-as-a-Service: This is called as nearly as possible the taking of all the hardware, software, servers and networking that is completely virtual.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Components of Cloud Computing\par
Question 3: What is the Service Model in Cloud Computing?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
This is the service model on which you will host your application(s), for example IaaS, PaaS or SaaS. Each of these service models requires various levels of support and responsibilities once a system is deployed to the platform. To resolve the future challenges that you might encounter you need to understand the models carefully. Other than the service model, the second, you need to decide whether you want a Private or On-Premise cloud, or you want your application to be deployed on a Public Cloud.\par
\par
Every service model offers you some kind of resource required to operate the most web-enabled systems imaginable.\par
\par
service model\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Cloud Computing: Service Models\par
Question 4: What are the kind of cloud storage and why is cloud computing is so popular?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Data is centrally stored in the cloud and available across the internet. There are various storage options available or we can classify them broadly in the following three categories:\par
\par
Public Cloud\par
\par
In this model a service provider makes resources, such as application and storage, available to the general public over the internet. Public cloud services may be free or offered on a pay-per-usage model.\par
\par
Private Cloud\par
\par
A private cloud provides more control over the company's data and under the control of the company's IT department. \par
\par
Hybrid Cloud\par
\par
A hybrid cloud is a combination of public cloud storage and private cloud storage, where some critical data resides in the enterprise's private cloud and other data is stored and accessible from a public cloud storage provider.\par
\par
Hybrid Cloud\par
\par
Benefits of a cloud:\par
\par
Lower costs, \ldblquote Pay as you use\rdblquote\par
Software updates\par
Backups\par
Data hosted centrally\par
Scalability\par
Fail over\par
Monitoring services\par
Data storage\par
There are many reasons why cloud computing is so widely popular:\par
\par
Reduction of costs\par
Universal access\par
Software updates\par
Scalability\par
Flexibility\par
For more details visit the following on link:\par
\par
Basics of Cloud Computting\par
Question 5: What is the Windows Azure Platform?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
The Windows Azure Platform lays the foundation for running applications and keeping data on the cloud. It contains computer services, storage services and the fabric. Windows Azure affords a wide range of capabilities in the form of computing services to run applications, storage services and creating a framework that supports several applications, as well as host services and manage them centrally. This platform readily stipulates an internet infrastructure for deploying distributed applications and services since we can develop a cloud service in Visual Studio .NET and deploy it into the Azure cloud right from on-premise tools. The Azure platform is a group of three cloud technologies as in the following:\par
\par
Windows Azure Platform\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Introduction to Microsoft Azure: Part 1\par
Question 6: What is Windows Azure and explain its services?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure is created by Microsoft, it is a cloud computing infrastructure and platform. It is designed for working on the global network of Microsoft. It is for building, managing and deploying services and applications. Windows Azure supports various programming languages, tools, and frameworks. It can be included in both Microsoft specific and third party systems and software. It provides an infrastructure of services and platforms as services. It is also an open and flexible cloud platform that makes it easy to work on the global network. It helps us to quickly create, manage and deploy applications on the global network.\par
\par
Features of Windows Azure\par
\par
Windows Azure runs and stores the data on Microsoft datacenters. There are many features that are specified here:\par
\par
Websites allows the developers to build the sites using ASP.NET, PHP, etc and deploy these websites using FTP, Git etc.\par
\par
SQL Database, formally known as Azure database creates, extends and scales the application into the cloud using Microsoft SQL Server.\par
\par
This is Microsoft's platform as a service that supports the Multi-tier applications and automated deployment.\par
Windows Azure Services\par
\par
There are various types of services that are provided by Windows Azure:\par
\par
Web Sites\par
Cloud services\par
Virtual Machine\par
Data Management\par
\par
SQL Database.\par
Tables.\par
\par
Business Analytics\par
\par
SQL Reporting.\par
Data Marketplace.\par
Windows Azure Services\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Introduction and Implementation of Windows Azure in ASP.NET Web API\par
Question 7: What are the roles available in Windows Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Roles are an important concept in Windows Azure and learning them is the base for further programming. There are mainly three roles in Windows Azure.\par
\par
Web Role\par
Worker Role\par
VM Role\par
Web Role: \par
\par
It provides a web front-end solution. This is similar to an ASP.NET application. While under hosting Azure provides IIS and required services.\par
\par
Worker Role: \par
\par
It provides a background service solution. This can be thought as a windows service application. We can use this role to run background operations like database management tasks, report generation, etc. It can run lengthy operations.\par
\par
According to MSDN, the Web Role can be considered as a Worker role loaded with IIS. Similarly the worker role can be used to host other application platforms.\par
\par
VM Role (Virtual Machine Role): \par
\par
The Web Role and Worker Role are executed on virtual machines. The Virtual Machine Roles provides the user the ability to customize the virtual machine on which the web and worker roles are running. The VM role runs a virtual hard disk (VHD) image which can be created and uploaded by the user. Through the VM role the customers can run scheduled tasks and other windows services.\par
\par
Virtual Machine Role\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure: Introducing Roles, Visual Studio Setup, Online Portal\par
Question 8: What is Windows Azure Portal and also explain the Azure Fabric?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure Portal:To run an application, a developer accesses the Windows Azure portal through her Web browser, signing in with a Windows Live ID. She then chooses whether to create a hosting account for running applications, a storage account for storing data, or both.\par
\par
Once the developer has a hosting account, the developer can use a Windows Azure portal to submit applications to Windows Azure.\par
\par
When the user sends a request to an application hosted on Azure (that can be passed by protocols like HTTP, HTTPS or TCP), the request will be received from the load balancer. The Load balancer balances the load across all the instances of the role (Web, Worker, and VM).\par
\par
Azure Fabric:\par
\par
The Azure fabric is the main core concept over here. It provides a service called the Azure Fabric Controller. It is called as OS for the Azure. Because it handles/manages:\par
\par
All roles (computing) and resources.\par
Deployment and activating services.\par
Health monitoring for all services.\par
Allocating, releasing of resources.\par
Provisioning VM, terminating etc.\par
Updating patches for installed OS on VM automatically. \par
So there would be better to have two instances of roles and also no need to worry about software updates for user.\par
Azure Fabric\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
A Walk Through on Windows Azure\par
Question 9: What are the three main components of Windows Azure Platform?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure provides platform and infrastructure by providing a scalable and cost-effective computing, storage, and networking resources on demand.\par
\par
\par
Windows Azure has three main components in Azure: Compute, Storage and Fabric.\par
\par
1. Windows Azure Compute\par
\par
Windows Azure provides a hosting environment for managed code. It provides computation service through roles. Windows azure supports 3 types of roles:\par
Web roles used for web application programming and supported by IIS7.\par
Worker roles used for background processing of web roles.\par
Virtual Machine (VM) roles used for migrating windows server applications to Windows azure in an easy way.\par
2. Windows Azure Storage\par
\par
Windows azure provides storage in cloud. It provides 4 types of storage services:\par
\par
Queues for messaging between web roles and worker roles.\par
Tables for storing structural data.\par
BLOBs (Binary Large Objects) to store text, files or large data.\par
Windows Azure Drives (VHD) to mount a page blob. These can be uploaded and downloaded via blobs.\par
3. Windows Azure AppFabric\par
\par
AppFabric provides infrastructure services for developing, deploying and managing Windows azure application. It provides 5 services:\par
\par
Service bus\par
Access\par
Caching\par
Integration\par
Composite\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Overview of Windows Azure\par
Question 10: What are the differences between a public cloud and a private cloud?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Private clouds are those that are built exclusively for an individual enterprise. They allow the firm to host applications in the cloud, while addressing concerns regarding data security and control that is often lacking in a public cloud environment. It is also known as an internal or enterprise cloud and resides on the company's intranet or hosted data center where all of your data is protected behind a firewall. \par
\par
Public Cloud\par
\par
Pay for whatever resource you need at whatever time period.\par
These are provided commercially.\par
Supports heavy workloads without disturbing any functionality.\par
It is very cheap for the consumers, since the hardware, application and other costs are handled by the providers.\par
There is no wasted resource because consumers are charged for what they use.\par
Scalability is always met here.\par
Private Cloud\par
\par
It is owned by a specific private group for their own use of employed, partners and their own customers.\par
Highly controlled and not accessible by anyone other than allowed.\par
Security, governance and compliance is highly automated.\par
Similarly, the features are like a Public Cloud irrespective of security and maintenance.\par
The cost is very high.\par
Private Cloud\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Cloud Computing: Service Models\par
Question 11: What do you understand about  Hybrid Cloud? Explain in detail.\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
A hybrid cloud is a mixture of internal and external cloud services, a combination of a private cloud combined with the use of public cloud services. This type of cloud is most suitable when you want to keep the confidential data at your premise (private cloud) and consume the other services from a public cloud.\par
\par
Pros of Hybrid Cloud\par
\par
Scalability:\par
\par
Usually the Private Cloud services will have a lesser scalability due to its security, cost and compliance whereas the Public Cloud has a high scalability and moving non-sensitive data from the private to the public will free up resources in the data centers in the Private Cloud and that increases a very high scalability for a Hybrid Cloud.\par
\par
Cost effective: \par
\par
Similarly the Public Cloud is very cost effective rather than Private Cloud and here the Hybrid Cloud provides cost effectiveness with the data and other sensitive operations secured.\par
\par
Security: \par
\par
Since there is a Private Cloud used; the data and sensitive operations are secured highly in the Hybrid Cloud.\par
\par
Flexibility: \par
\par
We can easilyove out m the non-sensitive data and manage large scalability using a Public Cloud service along with the Private Cloud. So with the availability of a large scalability using Public Cloud and security using Private Cloud an enterprise has a vast opportunity in developing for new needs.\par
Cons of Hybrid Cloud\par
\par
Infrastructure dependency\par
Networking\par
Security compliance\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
An Overview of Hybrid Clouds\par
Question 12: What is Diagnostics in Windows Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure diagnostics provides facility to store diagnostics data. Some diagnostics data is stored in a table, while some is stored in a blob. For collecting diagnostics data, we must initialize the Windows Azure diagnostic monitor. The Windows Azure diagnostic monitor runs in Windows Azure and in the computer's emulator and collects diagnostic data for a role instance.\par
\par
Following diagnostics data is stored in table storage:\par
\par
Data Source\tab Table name in Azure Storage\tab Detail\par
Windows Azure Logs\tab WADLogsTable\tab These are the application logs dumped from the application.\par
Windows Azure Diagnostics Infrastructure Logs\tab WADDiagnosticInfrastructureLogsTable\tab These are the logs about running of diagnostics service.\par
Windows Event logs\tab WADWindowsEventLogsTable\tab These are the logs generated on the instance where logs are running.\par
Performance counters\tab WADPerformanceCountersTable\tab These are the performance matrices like memory utilization, processor utilization, response time etc.\par
Following diagnostics data is stored in blob storage:\par
\par
Data Source\tab Container name in azure storage\tab Detail\par
IIS Logs\tab wad-iis-logfiles\tab These are the IIS logs generated by role instances.\par
Failed Request Logs\tab wad-iis-failedreqlogfiles\tab These are the IIS failed requests logs generated by role instances.\par
Crash Dumps\tab wad-crash-dumps\tab These are the logs generated on the application crash.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Understanding diagnostics in Windows Azure\par
Question 13: What is Azure Queues?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
The main reason for using queues is to provide loose connectivity among various components. For example, we have two components of an application to exchange data. Here one of them is on-premise and one exists in the cloud. Here if we use a web service to exchange data we have the following issues:\par
\par
Both components should be online simultaneously; if one partner is down, then the communication will not work.\par
It\rquote s difficult to scale up if more work is present.\par
In Azure Queues you have a queue as mediator that connects the two components, so when the receiver is down, the sender can still insert messages into the queue, once a receiver comes online it can receive message from that queue. And for scale up we just need to add more receivers and your queue is processed in parallel. \par
\par
The following are the drawbacks of using a queue:\par
\par
Queues has some charges, however these are minimal.\par
Your queue is doing mediator work here. If your queue is down, devices will not able to communicate with each other.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Deep Dive into Azure Storage Queue vs Azure Service Bus Queue\par
Question 13: What is the difference between Windows Azure Queues and Windows Azure Service Bus Queues?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure Queues:\par
\par
Windows Azure Queue Storage is a service for storing a large number of messages that can be accessed from anywhere using HTTP or HTTPS. A single message can be up to 64KB in size. So, a queue may contain millions of messages. It is basically a part of Windows Azure Storage and enabled with a REST based architecture.\par
\par
Service Bus Queues:\par
\par
Service Bus queues support brokered messaging communication. \par
\par
Queues provide First In, First Out (FIFO) message delivery, in other words messages are received and processed by the receivers in the order they were added to the queue.\par
\par
Each message is received and processed by only one message receiver.\par
message receiver\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure Queues And Windows Azure Service Bus Queues\par
Question 14: How can you create a Queue in storage account?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Queue is a one type of Azure Storage, where you can store your data as storage. Blobs are stored in container, Entity in table and Message in Queue.\par
\par
Following are the key concepts in queue.\par
\par
FIFO implementation\par
Messages are added to end of the Queue and processed from the front\par
Queues provides a good way of Front end and Back end decoupling\par
In the real world example the user can queue a job through the web role (front end) and the job can be processed by a worker role (back end). This gives an opportunity to decouple the web role and worker role.\par
\par
worker role\par
\par
Place a new label control on the aspx page and add the following code in the page load event.  \par
protected void Page_Load(object sender, EventArgs e)  \par
\{  \par
    StorageCredentialsAccountAndKey accountAndKey = newStorageCredentialsAccountAndKey("account", "key");  \par
    CloudStorageAccount account = new CloudStorageAccount(accountAndKey, true);  \par
    CloudQueueClient client = account.CreateCloudQueueClient();  \par
    CloudQueue queue = client.GetQueueReference("workitems");  \par
    queue.CreateIfNotExist();  \par
    CloudQueueMessage message = new CloudQueueMessage("Test Work Item");  \par
    queue.AddMessage(message);  \par
    // Populate the messages  \par
    message = queue.GetMessage();  \par
    if (message != null) Label1.Text = "Message in Queue: " + message.AsString;  \par
\}  \par
For more details visit the following link:\par
 \par
\par
Windows Azure - Create Queue in Storage Account\par
Question 15: What is a Storage keys?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Storage keys or Access Keys are used as an authentication mode for accessing the storage services account to manipulate information based on our requirements. In Windows Azure we have an option to provide a Primary Access Key and a Secondary Access Key, even though we will use a single access key to authenticate our application to the storage. The main reason to provide the secondary access key is to avoid downtime to the application. If we need to change the application access key by regenerating the access key it takes quite some time to take effect; this provides a downtime. \par
\par
To avoid this type of situation, a secondary access key is provided so that if the primary needs to be changed or regenerated we can map the secondary temporarily to the storage and regenerate the primary. Let us see step by step of how to get the Access Keys using Windows Azure Management Portal.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure - Get Access Keys For Azure Storage Account\par
Question 16: What is the concept of the table in Windows Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Table is a one type of Azure Storage, where you can store your data as storage. Blobs are stored in container and Entity in table.\par
\par
Following are the key concepts in table.\par
\par
Tables allow structure data storage\par
There can be 0..n tables in a storage account\par
Table store data as a collection of entities\par
Entity have a primary key and properties as key value pair\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure - Create Table in Storage Account\par
Question 17: How to send messages to a Queue and how to receive messages from a Queue?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Send Messages to a Queue\par
\par
The code below demonstrates how to create a QueueClient object for the "TestQueue" queue created above using the CreateFromConnectionString API call:\par
\par
string connectionString =   \par
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString");  \par
QueueClient Client =   \par
QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(connectionString, "TestQueue");  \par
Client.Send(new BrokeredMessage());  \par
Messages sent to (and received from) Service Bus queues are instances of the BrokeredMessage class.BrokeredMessage objects have a set of standard properties (such as Label and TimeToLive), a dictionary that is used to hold custom application specific properties, and a body of arbitrary application data. An application can set the body of the message by passing any serializable object into the constructor of the BrokeredMessage, and the appropriate DataContractSerializer will then be used to serialize the object. Alternatively, a System.IO.Stream can be provided.\par
\par
Receive Messages from a Queue\par
\par
The easiest way to receive messages from a queue is to use a QueueClient object. These objects can work in two different modes: ReceiveAndDelete and PeekLock.\par
\par
When using the ReceiveAndDelete mode, reception is a single-shot operation; that is, when the Service Bus receives a read request for a message in a queue, it marks the message as consumed, and returns it to the application.\par
\par
The ReceiveAndDelete mode is the simplest model and works best for scenarios in which an application can tolerate not processing a message in the event of a failure. To understand this, consider a scenario in which the consumer issues the receive request and then crashes before processing it. Because the Service Bus will have marked the message as being consumed, when the application restarts and begins consuming messages again, it will have missed the message that was consumed prior to the crash.\par
\par
This example creates an infinite loop and processes messages as they arrive in the "TestQueue":\par
Client.Receive();  \par
// Continuously process messages sent to the "TestQueue"   \par
while (true)  \par
\{  \par
    BrokeredMessage message = Client.Receive();  \par
    if (message != null)  \par
    \{  \par
        try  \par
        \{  \par
            Console.WriteLine("Body: " + message.GetBody < string > ());  \par
            Console.WriteLine("MessageID: " + message.MessageId);  \par
            Console.WriteLine("Test Property: " + message.Properties["TestProperty"]);  \par
            // Remove message from queue  \par
            message.Complete();  \par
        \}  \par
        catch (Exception)  \par
        \{  \par
            // Indicate a problem, unlock message in queue  \par
            message.Abandon();  \par
        \}  \par
    \}  \par
\}  \par
For more details visit the following link:\par
 \par
\par
Windows Azure Cloud Service And Service Bus Queues\par
Question 18: What are the Storages in Windows Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure data storage enables users to store, access, analyze and protect their data while making it available from anywhere and at any time. Windows Azure provides various services from storing data in SQL databases in the cloud for analysis and reporting to meet the needs of your business. Windows Azure ensures data security with high throughput of application data in the cloud. Windows Azure typically offers the following three types of storage in the cloud atmosphere.\par
\par
BLOB: BLOBs offer a mechanism for storing large amounts of text or binary data, such as images, audio and visual files. It can scale up to 200 terabytes and can be accessed using REST APIs. We can move BLOB data as a single volume between private and public clouds using Windows Azure Drive.\par
\par
Table: Tables represent storage locations across machines for data that reside in the form of entities and properties on the cloud. Tables store large amounts of unstructured data that can be accessed either using REST APIs from within a service running in Windows Azure or directly over the Internet using HTTP/HTTPS.\par
\par
Queue: The sole objective of a Queue is to enable communication between Web and Worker Role instances. They aid in storing messages that may be accessed by a client. Web Role instances can initiate user requests that need to be processed in the background. On the other side a Worker Role observers the queue to process the request and respond back via queue to the Web Role instance.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Practicing Microsoft Azure: Part 6 (Cloud Computing)\par
Question 19: What is Federation inSQL Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Federation is introduced in SQL Azure for scalability. Federation helps both administrators and developers to scale data. It helps administrators by making repartitioning and redistributing of data easier. It helps developers in the routing layer and sharding of data. It helps in routing without application downtime. \par
\par
Federation does basic scaling of objects in a SQL Azure Database. Federations are the partioned data. There can be multiple Federations within a database. And each Federation represents a different distribution scheme. \par
\par
We create a Federation with a different distribution scheme and requirement. Student and Grades tables of a School Database may have a different distribution requirement so they are put into different Federations. \par
\par
Each Federation object scales out data to many system managed nodes. A Federation object contains: \par
\par
Federation object scales \par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Scalability in SQL Azure\par
Question 20: What is SQL Azure Database?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
SQL Azure database is simply a way to get connected in Cloud Services where we can store our database into Cloud. Microsoft SQL Services and Microsoft SQL Data Services are now known as Microsoft SQL Azure and SQL Azure Database. Microsoft Azure is the best way to use PAAS (Platform as a Service) where we can host multiple databases on the same Account. \par
\par
Platform as a Service\par
\par
Microsoft SQL Azure has the same feature of SQL Server, i.e. high availability, scalability and security in the core.\par
\par
Microsoft Azure SQL Database have a feature, it automatically creates backups of every active database. Every hour a backup is taken and geo-replicated to enable the 1 hour recovery point objective (RPO) for Geo-Restore. Additionally, transaction log backups are taken every 5 minutes to enable Point in Time Restore.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
Use of SQL Azure In Visual Studio 2015 Step By Step Guide\par
Question 21: What are SQL Azure firewall rules?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
SQL Azure firewall rules are provided to protect the data and to prevent access restrictions to the SQL Azure database. Firewall grants access to the originating IP's from which we are trying to access the database. In order to configure the firewall we need to configure a range of acceptable IP addresses upon which we try to connect to the SQL Azure server using the Management Portal or with the SQL Server Management Studio. Let us see the step by step process of adding and deleting rules as per our IP configurations.\par
\par
All access to SQL azure is blocked by firewall. \par
\par
By default Database created in SQL Azure is blocked by firewall for security reasons. Any attempt from external access or access from any azure application is blocked by firewall.\par
\par
azure application\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Creating Firewall Rule for SQL Azure\par
Question 22: What is Windows Azure Traffic Manager? What are its benefits?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Traffic Manager Name is itself self-explanatory. It allows users to control the distribution of user traffic of deployed Azure cloud services, Azure websites or any other endpoint. In this the distribution of traffic includes Azure cloud services, Azure web sites and other endpoints. There are 3 different load balancing methods provided by Azure. The Traffic Manager works by applying an intelligent routing policy engine to the Domain Name Service (DNS) queries on your domain names and maps the DNS routes to the appropriate instances of your applications.\par
\par
Benefits of Azure Traffic Manager\par
\par
Increase Performance: Can increase performance of your application that includes faster page loading and better user experience. This applies to the serving of users with the hosted service closest to them.\par
\par
High Availability: You can use the Traffic Manager to improve application availability by enabling automatic customer traffic fail-over scenarios in the event of issues with one of your application instances.\par
\par
No Downtime Required for Upgrade / Maintenance: Once you have configured the Traffic Manager you don't need downtime for application maintenance, patch purgation or complete new package deployment.\par
\par
Easy to configure (Quick Setup): It's very easy to configure Azure Traffic Manager on Widows Azure portal. If you have already hosted your application on Windows Azure (a cloud service, Azure website) you can easily configure this Traffic Manager with a simple procedure (setting routing policy).\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
What is Windows Azure Traffic Manager and How it Works\par
Question 22: What are the data synchronize services in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Sync Services is provided by Microsoft Azure where you can keep a SQL Azure database synchronized with another database. You can take a backup of a database from one region to another region. There is a simple procedure you need to follow to configure this service. If not a complete database then you can at least keep selected tables or selected rows of tables synchronized.\par
\par
This service provides the following two ways to synchronize:\par
\par
Synchronize a SQL Azure database from one SQL Azure server to another SQL Azure server.\par
Synchronize a SQL Azure Database from an Azure Server to a Local Server database.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
How to Sync Two SQL Azure Databases\par
Question 23: How can you manage SQL Azure security?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
SQL Azure also has a security management system very similar to the SQL on-premises versions. It basically consists of the following:\par
\par
Logins: Server level.\par
Users: Database level, mapped to server logins.\par
Schemas: Database level, authorized/owned by a user or another schema.\par
Roles: Database level, authorized/owned by a user or another role.\par
Permissions: Database level, permission like SELECT, DELETE, ALTER and so on for objects/schemas granted to users/roles.\par
When you create a server in SQL Azure, it asks you to create a login at the same time. That login acts as the administrative login that has access to all the databases in that server. However, you might want to create other logins with less privilege. As of now, the SQL Azure portal doesn't have any UI to create these extra logins. So you'll need to resort to running T-SQL statements.\par
\par
Note: All of the following procedures are done using the administrative login mentioned above.\par
\par
Creating Logins\par
\par
Login to the master database and run the following T-SQL statement.\par
\par
CREATE LOGIN MyServerLogin WITH password='My#Password123'   \par
This statement creates a login ID in the server. This a a normal login ID that doesn't have access to any of the databases in that server. So if you try to login to the Azure server with this account (either from SQL Server Management Studio 2008 R2 - SSMS or from Azure Portal) you would get an error saying this user doesn't have access to the master database. So the next step is to map this login to the required databases, not necessarily to the master db.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
 \par
\par
Manage SQL Azure Security\par
Question 24: What are the different types of databases in SQL Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
In the SQL Azure there are two types of databases:\par
\par
Web Edition\par
Business Edition\par
The Web Edition Relational Database includes:\par
\par
Up to 5 GB of a T-SQL based relational database*\par
Self-managed DB, auto high availability and fault tolerance\par
Supported by existing tools like Visual Studio, SSMS, SSIS, BCP\par
Best suited for Web application, Departmental custom applications.\par
Business Edition DB includes:\par
\par
Up to 50 GB of T-SQL based relational database*\par
Self-managed DB, auto high availability and fault tolerance\par
Additional features in the future like auto-partition, CLR, fanouts etc\par
Supported by existing tools like Visual Studio, SSMS, SSIS, BCP\par
Best suited for Saas ISV applications, custom Web application, Departmental applications.\par
Business Edition DB includes\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Different Data Base Editions in SQL Azure\par
Question 25: What is TFS build system in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
A Build is nothing but the output of a solution. In the case of Azure projects, you generally get the file with a .cspkg extension that means a Cloud Service Package is used for the deployment of your cloud services.\par
\par
Build Servers\par
\par
In layman's terms a build server acts as the machine where you put your deployment packages.\par
\par
To use Team Foundation Build, you must have at least one build machine. This machine can be a physical machine or a virtual machine.\par
\par
Build Controllers\par
\par
Build Controllers are the element in the build system that accepts the build requests from any project inside the team project collection. Each build controller is dedicated to a single-team project collection. So there is a one-to-one relationship between a team project collection and a build controller.\par
\par
Build Agents\par
\par
Build agents are elements in the build system that does more processor-intensive work. \par
\par
Build Definitions\par
\par
A Build definition is nothing but the process that the build controller using to deploy your packages to a target site. Using Team Explorer you should be able to create a new build definition where you will need to associate the build controller and define process as well as trigger a point for the definition.\par
\par
Once the build definition is in place, you will be able to queue new builds using it. \par
\par
Typical Build System Topology\par
\par
Typical Build System Topology\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Basics of TFS Build System and Integrating it With Azure Cloud Services\par
Question 26: What is the difference between IaaS and PaaS in Cloud?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): is in effect much like building a set of services and virtual machines and networks in a Cloud as the user would On-Premises.\par
\par
Platform as a Service ( PaaS): A Platform is a cloud that gives the user various frameworks, tools and services on the cloud and the user are building the application in the cloud leveraging these various tools, services and components within the application.\par
\par
 \tab IaaS\tab PaaS\par
Granularity of Control of Virtual Machines\tab The user can remote into virtual machine running in the cloud using IDP. The user has the same level of control as the user would with a virtual machine on-premises. This means the user can get into the registry, install custom software the user want to install on that virtual machine.\tab The PaaS provider takes care of running the application. It means that the user doesn't get access to registry and neither can the user install custom software necessarily in that application or in the location where it runs.\par
\par
PaaS providers provide the infrastructure and the platforms.\par
Control over the environment configuration\tab The user can choose a certain number of virtual cores, virtual CPUs, RAM, networking set up, how many different networks, virtual VPNs, separate subnets, extensions to on-premises networks and load-balancing across multiple VMs.\tab PaaS can be thought of as the next step of IaaS where the configurations is also done for the user by the provider.\par
Maintenance\tab The user is responsible for the O/S, patching, firewall management, security, data, runtime, applications, middleware and everything that's running inside of the VM because the user is responsible for that virtual machine. The only difference is the location of the VM; instead of on-premise it is in the cloud. The user still gets to do all the configurations but the user is relieved of doing the physical hardware things.\tab The provider is responsible for application/services on PaaS. The user is just managing the various services.\par
Scalability\tab The user is responsible for scalability.\tab Scalability is the responsibility of the PaaS provider.\par
Pricing\tab Subscription Model.\tab Subscription Model, but it includes the cost of hardware for the installation of PaaS.\par
Both IaaS and PaaS help organizations to minimize operational costs and increase their productivity as they get faster time to market and require no up-front investments.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
IaaS and PaaS in Cloud\par
Question 27: What is the Azure App Service? What are the advantages of App Service over Mobile Service?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Azure App Service is a fully managed Platform as a Service (PaaS) offering for professional developers that brings a rich set of capabilities to web, mobile and integration scenarios. Mobile Apps in Azure App Service offer a highly scalable, globally available mobile application development platform for Enterprise Developers and System Integrators that brings a rich set of capabilities to mobile developers.\par
\par
Advantages of App Service:\par
\par
Simpler, easier and more cost effective offering for apps that include both web and mobile clients.\par
New host features including Web Jobs, custom CNames, better monitoring.\par
Turnkey integration with Office 365, Dynamics CRM, Salesforce, and other vital SaaS APIs.\par
Support for Java and PHP backend code, in addition to Node.js and .NET.\par
Turnkey integration with Traffic Manager.\par
Connectivity to your on-premise resources and VPNs using VNet in addition to Hybrid Connections.\par
Monitoring and troubleshooting for your app using NewRelic or AppInsights, as well as alerts.\par
Richer spectrum of the underlying compute resources, e.g. VM sizes.\par
Built-in auto scale, load balancing, and performance monitoring.\par
Built-in staging, backup, roll-back, and testing-in-production capabilities.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Connecting Windows Apps Using Azure App Service - Part 1\par
Question 28: How can you demonstrate between Azure mobile service and Web API?\par
\par
Answer:\par
\par
Web API: Web API is used only for that client who uses HTTP enabled  services. There is a problem with Web API, if you want to create a Web API service, then you need knowledge of ASP.NET solution and you need to be familiar with .Net. \par
\par
There are more benefits of Web API over Node.js. Web API uses HTTP request and process them using the HTTP verbs. Actually, Web API is fully REST service. As per my thinking Web API is better approach to create APIs.\par
\par
Azure Mobile Services: Windows Azure Mobile Service is a tool that can integrated with the Windows Azure cloud. This tool will help you to connect a cloud backend to your Windows 8 application. The goal of the Windows Azure Mobile Service is to make Windows Azure the obvious choice for the Windows 8 Metro style application developer. Currently we can only use the Windows Azure Mobile Service in Metro style applications but in the near future the mobile service can also work with iOS, Android and Windows Phone.\par
\par
Mobile services can only be run on demand or you can schedule the service when it will start and when it will stop.\par
\par
To use Windows Azure Mobile Services, you need to use any Source Control where you can take the backup.\par
\par
For more detail visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure Mobile Service Vs WEB API\par
Question 29: What is Google Cloud Platform?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
Google Cloud Platform is a new way to use cloud computing platform in real time. It is developed by Google and offers every developer the chance to host their Web API\rquote s and Cloud Storage and many more things on the same supporting infrastructure that is used by Google itself internally in their products, such as Google Search, Google Play Store, Gmail and YouTube. Also for every product by Google, Google Cloud Platform provides developer products to build application and a range of programs from simple websites to complex applications. Google use Load Balancer technique that allows distributing cloud data into multiple data centers all over the world. With the help of Google Cloud BigQuery we can execute billions of queries per second. \par
\par
Google Cloud Platform is specially designed for enterprise solutions from Google for Work and provides a set of modular cloud-based services with a host of development tools, test, and deploy applications on Google's highly-scalable and reliable infrastructure for your web, mobile and backend solutions. For example:\par
\par
Hosting and computing\par
o App Engine.\par
o Compute Engine.\par
Cloud storage\par
o Cloud Storage.\par
o Cloud Store.\par
o Cloud SQL\par
\par
\par
BigData\par
o BigQuery\par
Services\par
o Cloud Endpoints.\par
o Translate API.\par
o Prediction API.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Getting Started With Google Cloud Platform\par
Question 30: What is the VM (Role) and VM (Pass)?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
VM Role: VM role is a kind of role in the Azure platform which helps to maintain service packs, patches, updates and applications already installed, to Windows Azure automatically.\par
\par
We can use a VM Role in the case of:\par
\par
Long-Running Setup: If the application requires a long-running setup.\par
Error-Prone Application: Application in which you expect more errors/risks while installing it.\par
VM (IaaS): These are literally VMs as we understood then from the On-Premise running in the Azure Microsoft Data Center.\par
\par
Advantages of VM over VM role:\par
\par
VM is durable.\par
IaaS VMs is that you can take just about any on-premises application, whether it makes changes to the local file system or not (even if the OS is one of the supported Linux distributions) and deploy it to the cloud for a few cents per hour.\par
Disadvantages:\par
\par
Provisioning time will be increased.\par
Automatic OS/software updates will be there in the (IaaS) VM.\par
For more detail visit the following link:\par
\par
Differences Between VM Role (Platform as a Service) and VM (Infrastructure as a Service)\par
Question 31: What is Virtual Machine in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Google Cloud Platform Compute Engine is Google's Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), which is used to run large-scale workloads on virtual machines hosted on Google's infrastructure. It is used by Google itself for their end user products, such as Google search, YouTube and for all products of Google. Allows you to choose a VM with a specific requirement of hardware configurations with a list of server operating systems and now it also allow Windows Server.\par
\par
Azure Virtual Machines could be your choice if you want frequent modifications and changes in your web server environment. It provides you rich set of features; however, correctly configuring, securing and maintaining VMs require much more time and more IT expertise compared to Azure Cloud Services and Azure Websites. You will need to make more effort on frequent maintenance and update patches to manage the VM environment.\par
\par
For more detail visit the following link:\par
\par
Compute Engine (Virtual Machines) In Google Cloud\par
Question 32: How to create a Virtual Machine in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Here are following steps to create a Virtual Machine in Cloud:\par
\par
Step 1: Log in to your Azure management portal.\par
\par
Step 2: Click New.\par
\par
Step 3: Select "Compute" -> "Virtual Machine" -> "From Gallery".\par
\par
Step 4: Select the Operating System that you would like to install on the VM. In this scenario we will install a Ubuntu server 13.04 because then it will be easy for me to continue with the later posts on creating a PHP app on our new VM.\par
\par
Step 5: The next window will ask you about user details, VM RAM and number of cores and a name for the VM. Fill them in as you wish. I will use a password instead of a SSH key.\par
\par
Step 6: Next window ask you about cloud configuration (DNS Setting) and Storage account and Region. Except for region leave the rest as it is unless you know what you are doing.\par
\par
Step 7: Now we will need to create end points for us to access the VM. For now let's keep SSH access only.\par
\par
Step 8: Then the VM will be created and will be running after a few minutes. You can see it in your Azure portal.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
How to Create a Virtual Machine in Azure\par
\par
OR\par
\par
Create Virtual Machine (VM) In Microsoft Azure (Step By Step)\par
Question 33: What is Autoscaling in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Autoscaling Application Blocks can automatically scale the Windows Azure application based on the rules defined specifically for the application.\par
\par
The Autoscaling Application Block supports two autoscaling mechanisms:\par
\par
Instance Autoscaling, where the block changes the number of role instances based on constraint and reactive rules.\par
\par
Throttling, where the application modifies its own behavior to change its resource utilization based on a set of reactive rules. For example switching off non-essential features, or gracefully degrading its UI.\par
So, there are two types of rules:\par
\par
Constraint rules: Constraint rules set the upper and lower bounds on the number of instances. For example, in the evening between 6:00 and 8:00, you need a minimum of 3 instances and a maximum of 7 instances, then use the constraint rule.\par
\par
Reactive rules: Reactive rules enable the number of role instances to change in response to unpredictable changes in demand. For example, if the workload increases then increase the number of role instances by 1. The reactive rules can use a variety of techniques like performance counters, or the Windows Azure queue length to monitor and control the application's workload. A reactive rule makes changes to the number of role instances only if a constraint rule applies at the same time. It is easy to create a default constraint rule that always applies.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Autoscaling Application Blocks WIndows Azure\par
Question 34: What is AWS Cloud Formation?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
AWS Cloud Formation is a cloud builder service that helps you model and set up your Amazon Web Services resources so that you can spend less time managing those resources and more time focusing on your applications that run in AWS. For this you need to create a template that describes all the AWS resources that you want, like Amazon EC2 instances that you want, Amazon VPC and subnet details and so on. AWS CloudFormation takes care of provisioning and configuring those resources for you. You don't need to individually create and configure AWS resources and figure out what's dependent on what, AWS CloudFormation handles all of that.\par
\par
AWS CloudFormation is available at no additional charge. You will be billed only the normal rates for the AWS resources like EC2, RDS, LB and so on that AWS CloudFormation creates and your application and resources use.\par
\par
resources  \par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
AWS Cloud Formation\par
Question 35: What is profiling in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Profiling is nothing but a process of measuring the performance analysis of an application. It is usually done to ensure that the application is stable enough and can sustain heavy traffic.\par
\par
Visual Studio provides us various tools to do it by gathering the performance data from the application that also helps in the troubleshooting issues. \par
\par
Once the profiling wizard is run, it establishes the performance session and collects the sampling data, then generates report files that can be opened and analyzed in Visual Studio.\par
\par
The profiling reports can help us to:\par
\par
Determine the longest running methods within the application.\par
Measure the execution time of each method in the call stack.\par
Evaluate memory allocation.\par
Analyze concurrency issues (usually for multi-threaded code).\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Profiling Azure Cloud Services\par
Question 36: How can you connect an Azure Hosted website to FTP?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Here are some steps:\par
\par
Stop: Stopping the virtual server.\par
Restart: It will restart the server if something gone wrong.\par
Mange Domains: If upgrade from free account to basic or standard account you can manage your domains here.\par
Delete: It will delete entire website.\par
WebMatrix: To link website to WebMatrix.\par
If you click on website you will be taken in dashboard where different operations are available,\par
\par
Monitor: Graphical representation of request, cuptime, data in, data out.\par
Configure: Change the language setting version used.\par
WebJobs: Automatic task that are scheduled will be discussed in upcoming articles.\par
Scaling: More than one instance of website can be created to balance load.\par
Linked Resources:\par
\par
This will show how the resources are attached. You will see the cleardb database if you click on it will redirect you to cleardb website and you will be automatically logged into account created by azure for you. You can view performance and other configurations of your database. \par
\par
Connecting FTP\par
\par
If we want to view files of our WordPress in order to change configuration setting, upload content or to make backup.\par
\par
For this we have to set some deployment credentials in Microsoft Azure so that Azure verifies that we are authorized to make changes.\par
\par
For this go to Management portal select website. Dashboard of app will be opened. If not, click on setup deployment credentials.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Connecting Azure Hosted Website To FTP\par
Question 37: What is Cmdlet in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
A cmdlet is a lightweight command that is used in the Microsoft PowerShell environment. The Windows PowerShell runtime invokes these cmdlets within the context of automation scripts that are provided at the command line. The Windows PowerShell runtime also invokes them programmatically through Windows PowerShell APIs. \par
\par
A cmdlet is a compiled piece of .NET code. Cmdlets handle object input and output as well as usually playing nice and well with the (object-based) pipeline. Cmdlets have no direct representation in the file system, as they are not programs or similar. They exist solely within PowerShell. You can use the Get-Command Cmdlet to query all available Cmdlets, functions, etc.\par
\par
How to Start with Windows Azure Automation using Cmdlets:\par
\par
Go to Microsoft Azure home page.\par
Click the Downloads link on the page (See at the very bottom of the page)\par
Click the link for Command Line Tools\par
The installation can take several minutes because there is a dependency on the Microsoft Azure SDK, which has its own set of dependencies.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Microsoft Azure Automation And Cmdlets\par
Question 38: What is Azure Explorer?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Azure Explorer is a free Microsoft Azure storage tool; in this we can manage all our Microsoft Azure blobs at a common place or one place. Azure Storage Explorer is a useful GUI tool for inspecting and altering the data.\par
\par
In Azure Explorer, we have \ldblquote Azure Storage Account\rdblquote , and in the Azure Storage Account, we can manage more than one Blob Container, in Blob Container we can create page blob as well as new folders to store our files.\par
\par
Step 1: For the installation of Azure Explorer we need go to its download link, After going to above link, you will see the following window. Click \ldblquote DOWNLOAD AZURE EXPLORER\rdblquote .\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Installation Of Azure SDK And Blob Storage In Azure: Part 1\par
Question 39: What is Service Fabric in Azure?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
Azure Service Fabric is a next-generation middleware cloud platform to build scalable, reliable, and managed enterprise applications. Microsoft is already using Service Fabric powers in many of its products, including Azure SQL Database, Azure DocumentDB, Cortana, and Power BI.\par
\par
Develop massively scalable applications that are self-healing.\par
\par
Develop with a "datacenter on your machine" approach. The local development environment is the same code that runs in the Azure datacenters.\par
\par
Develop applications composed of microservices, executables, and other application frameworks of your choice, such as ASP.NET, Node.js, etc.\par
\par
Develop stateless and stateful (micro)services and make these highly reliable.\par
\par
Simplify the design of your application by using stateful (micro)services in place of caches and queues.\par
\par
Deploy applications in seconds.\par
\par
Deploy to Azure or to on-premises clouds running Windows Server with zero code changes. Write once and then deploy to any Service Fabric cluster.\par
\par
Deploy applications at higher density than virtual machines, deploying hundreds or thousands of applications per machine.\par
\par
Deploy different versions of the same application side by side, each independently upgradable.\par
\par
Manage the lifecycle of your stateful applications without any downtime, including breaking and nonbreaking upgrades.\par
For More details visit on following link:\par
\par
Creating A Service Fabric App\par
Question 40: What is Windows Azure Scheduler?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure Scheduler allow you to invoke actions \f1\endash  such as calling HTTP/S endpoints or posting a message to a storage queue on any schedule. With Scheduler, you create jobs in the cloud that reliably call services both inside and outside of Windows Azure and run those jobs on demand, on a regularly recurring schedule, or designate them for a future date.\par
\par
Scheduling is the history details of your apps in the cloud; it gives information of the particular application, means its status, its start time and its end time.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Windows Azure Scheduler\par
Question 41: What is Blob Storage in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Windows Azure Blob Storage can store hundreds of terabytes data in one account. As you know you can create multiple blob storage accounts, so definitely you can store multiple hundreds of terabytes data with Windows Azure Blob Storage.\par
\par
We don\rquote t require taking tension about the backup of the data which is stored on blob storage. It is because it automatically takes the backed up data. You can increase your storage as per requirement and you need to pay only which you have used and what you have used. \par
\par
One more thing, that you don\rquote t need to take headache about how to manage your data, your VM or any other things; actually Windows Azure manages everything automatically. \par
\par
You can use Blob Storage as REST API and can use with any language like Java, .NET, etc. Actually technology doesn\rquote t matter with blob storage. It means all kinds of client can be accessible to this storage.\par
\par
accessible to this storage\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Upload Image In Azure Blob Storage With ASP.NET MVC\par
Question 42: Why do you go with Microsoft Windows Azure?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
There are many regions that people want to go with Microsoft Windows Azure:\par
\par
Flexibility: Windows Azure supports wide range of Operating System that makes it reachable to wide range of customers. It also supports different kinds of programming language like PHP, .NET, JAVA, etc. You can use different kinds of frameworks and tools for building your Apps. So, basically it provides us flexibility to choose existing one which will help us to create variety of applications with Windows Azure.\par
\par
Extendable: Windows Azure easily integrates with your existing environment using largest network with secure private connectivity. It also provides database, storage which is extendable on demand. Windows Azure can run with your data center.\par
\par
Scalable: You can scale up and down your services as per your demand. Services, storage and performance also will be same if you scale up or down. So, small client can take benefit of Windows Azure and their services.\par
\par
Protection: Everyone is worried about their data. They need protection for their data, nobody can rely on some vendor for their data. Windows Azure has launched Azure Government for believing you that your data is secure with Windows Azure. It commits for securing, protecting and privacy of your data.\par
\par
Trusted: Today Windows Azure is used by top clients worldwide. They are using Windows Azure Services for a long time and they believe in it.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Why Go With Microsoft Windows Azure\par
Question 43: What is Azure Mobile Service?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Microsoft Azure Mobile Service gives you the power to create a cloud service mobile application. This will make your work more flexible and gives your application more portability in an efficient way. This is a short introduction of Azure Mobile service. You will get to know, how to create and integrate new mobile service in your new or existing application. So let\rquote s get crack in Azure Mobile Service with Universal Windows Platform.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Brief About Windows Azure Storage\par
Question 44: What is the difference between Table, Queue, and Blob storage?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
To use Azure Storage, you just need to have an Azure Storage Account. Using this account you can access the service of the Azure Storage. Actually Azure Storage provides two types of the storage account.\par
\par
Standard Storage Account: It is for Blob, Table, and Queue Storage.\par
Premium Storage Account: It is for Azure Virtual Machine Disks Only.\par
BLOB STORAGE: It can store any type of data; data can be a document file, media file, exe or dll, images, text file or any other data file. So, basically it is used for storing the objects. So, as the definition says, we can store large amount of the unstructured data into the blob storage. \par
\par
TABLE STORAGE: It is like a table inside the SQL Server. So, it is used to store the structured data. Table storage is a NoSQL key-attribute data store. It means every data stored into the table is stored with typed property name. It is very fast when you are working with large number of data. It doesn\rquote t use schema for developing the table. \par
\par
QUEUE STORAGE: Sometimes, it is required to transfer the data in the format of the message over the internet between the two cloud services. In that scenario we prefer to use the queue storage. You can create large number of the queues to process your data. Every queue contains large number of the message and every message size may be up to 64 KB.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Brief About Windows Azure Storag\par
Question 45: What isthe Migration Assistant tool in Azure Websites?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
The migration Assistant tool will help to analyze your IIS installation and identify which sites can be migrated to the cloud, highlighting any elements which cannot be migrated or are unsupported on the platform.\par
\par
Once analyzed this tool will also create websites and databases provided under given azure subscription.\par
\par
Automated Assessment and Migration\par
\par
This tool will provide a high level readiness assessment.\par
The report outlines sites which are ready to move, elements which may need changes and highlights unsupported features.\par
The detailed report offers expert guidance and advice tailored to your environment.\par
The tool creates any Website(s) and associated database(s), if applicable, automatically and synchronizes your content.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Azure Websites Migration Assistant Tool\par
Question 46: What is Azure Mobile Engagement? \par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Azure Mobile Engagement is a SaaS-delivered, data-driven user engagement platform that enables real-time fine-grain user segmentation, app user analytics, and contextually-aware smart push notifications and in-app messaging across all connected devices.\par
\par
With Azure Mobile Engagement, Application publishers and marketing professionals can create cutting edge interactions like the following,\par
\par
Real Time actionable analytics to increase app usage.\par
Push Notification and Communication Platform.\par
Open API's and Ease of integration.\par
Data Protection & Privacy across globe.\par
Azure Mobile Engagement is available across all major mobile platforms including Android, iOS and Windows.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Azure Mobile Engagement - Windows Phone 8.1 Silverlight\par
Question 47: What is WordPress in Microsoft Azure?\par
\par
Answer \par
\par
WordPress is Web software you can use to create a Web sites, blog, or apps. The core software is built by hundreds of community volunteers, and when you\rquote re ready for more, there are thousands of plugins and themes available to transform your site into almost anything you can imagine.\par
\par
We can install WordPress on our local computers to develop Web sites, blogs, or theme plugins; or we can install it on the cloud where everyone can access our Web sites.\par
Installing and Running WordPress.\par
\par
Login to manage.windowsazure.com to access you Azure portal.\par
Click on CREATE A WEB APP or +NEW button in the portal.\par
You can select QUICK CREATE and then upload it from your computer.\par
On clicking Gallery the model window will appear where you can find WordPress by scrolling (or navigating to BLOGS, then WordPress).\par
\par
Select the WordPress and click next. Fill the required Information.\par
Fill the URL, database, region and deployment setting details.\par
Click on Next: Fill in information about MySQL database. Azure will choose the unique name of your database and region to place the database physically.\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Installing And Running WordPress With Microsoft Azure\par
Question 48: What is Azure HDInsight?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Azure HDInsight deploys and provisions Apache Hadoop clusters in the cloud, providing a software framework designed to manage, analyze, and report on big data. \par
\par
With the September 2015 release of HDInsight, now customers configure these clusters to run using both a Windows Server Operating System as well as an Ubuntu based Linux Operating System. \par
\par
HDInsight on Linux enables even broader support for Hadoop ecosystem users to run in HDInsight providing you even greater choice of preferred tools and applications for running Hadoop workloads. \par
\par
Both Linux and Windows clusters in HDInsight are built on the same standard Hadoop distribution and offer the same set of rich capabilities. \par
\par
HDInsight  \par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Running Hadoop on Linux using Azure HDInsight\par
Question 49: How can you create a HDInsight Cluster in Azure?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
To create an Azure HDInsight Cluster, open the Azure portal then click on New, Data Services, then HDInsight.\par
\par
The following options are available:\par
\par
Hadoop is the default and native implementation of Apache Hadoop.\par
\par
HBase is an Apache open-source NoSQL database built on Hadoop that provides random access and strong consistency for large amounts of unstructured data.\par
\par
Storm is a distributed, fault-tolerant, open-source computation system that allows you to process data in real time.\par
The next step is to add a cluster name, select the cluster size, add a password, select a storage and click on create HDInsight cluster.\par
\par
Enable Remote Desktop on the Cluster:\par
\par
Once the cluster has been created, its jobs and contents can be viewed by remote connection. To enable remote connection to the cluster, use the following procedure:\par
\par
Click HDINSIGHT on the left pane. You will see a list of deployed HDInsight clusters.\par
Click the HDInsight cluster that you want to connect to.\par
From the top of the page, click CONFIGURATION.\par
From the bottom of the page, click ENABLE REMOTE.\par
In the Configure Remote Desktop wizard, enter a user name and password for the remote desktop. Note that the user name must be different from the one used to create the cluster (admin by default with the Quick Create option). Enter an expiration date in the EXPIRES ON box. \par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Introduction to Big Data Analytics Using Microsoft Azure\par
Question 50: What is Text Analytics API in Azure Machine?\par
\par
Answer\par
\par
Text Analytics API is a suite of text analytics web services built with Azure Machine Learning. The API can be used to analyze unstructured text for tasks such as sentiment analysis and key phrase extraction.\par
\par
The API returns a numeric score between 0 & 1. Scores close to 1 indicate positive sentiment, while scores close to 0 indicate negative sentiment.\par
\par
The advantage of this API is that a new model need not be designed and trained, the user only needs to bring the data and call the service to get the sentiment results.\par
\par
However, because this is only the initial release of this service only English is supported right now.\par
\par
How it works:\par
\par
Text Analytics API does not simply use a lexicon approach to map words such as \ldblquote good or bad\rdblquote  to return the results.\par
\par
Instead, it uses advanced natural language processing techniques under the hood.\par
\par
For more details visit the following link:\par
\par
Text Analytics API With Azure Machine Learning\par
Thanks for reading this article and stay connected with me for more information about AZURE and other technologies.\par
\par
Download my new EBook \ldblquote .NET interview Questions and Answer\rdblquote .\par
\par
\f0\par
}
 