{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9\par
\par
Top 34 JIRA Interview Questions  Answers\tab\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://career.guru99.com/top-18-jira-interview-questions/ }}{\fldrslt{https://career.guru99.com/top-18-jira-interview-questions/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Top 34 JIRA Interview Questions & Answers\par
Top 34 JIRA Interview Questions & Answers\tab\par
\par
\par
 \par
1) Explain what is JIRA?\par
\par
JIRA is an issue tracking product or a software tool developed by Atlassian, commonly used for bug tracking, project management and issue tracking; it is entirely based on this three aspects.\par
\par
2) Explain what is a workflow?\par
\par
Workflow is defined as a movement of the bug/issue through various stages during its life-cycle\par
\par
Created/Open\par
WIP ( Work In Progress)\par
Completed/Closed\par
3) What can be referred as an issue in JIRA?\par
\par
In JIRA, an issue can be anything like a\par
\par
Software bug\par
The project task\par
A help-desk ticket\par
The leave request form\par
4) List out the source control programs with which it integrates?\par
\par
It integrates with source control programs such as CVS, Git, Subversion, Clearcase, Visual SourceSafe, Mercurial, and Perforce.\par
\par
5) Why use JIRA?\par
\par
The reason behind using JIRA is\par
\par
Upfront and fair licensing policy\par
Features that is not available elsewhere\par
Get latest update on the progress of projects\par
It run anywhere and recognized with many famous companies\par
Easily extensible and customizable\par
images (1)\par
\par
6) Is it possible to access JIRA cloud site via a mobile device?\par
\par
Yes, it is possible to access JIRA cloud site via a mobile device. You have to just use the URL of the JIRA cloud site in your mobile web browser.\par
\par
7) Can you disable JIRA mobile for the site?\par
\par
You can disable JIRA mobile for the site, so that users can be unable to operate the desktop view of JIRA on their mobile device.  JIRA mobile comes as a system add-on and can be disabled any time.\par
\par
\par
 \par
8) Explain labelling and linking issue in JIRA?\par
\par
Labelling Issue: It enables you to categorize an issue in a more informal way than assigning it to a component or version. You can then search issues according to label.\par
Linking Issue: This feature enables you to link an association between two issues on either on the same or different JIRA servers.\par
9) Mention the types of reports generated in JIRA?\par
\par
JIRA offer reports that show statistics for projects, versions, people or other fields within issues.  Various reports included with JIRA are\par
\par
Average Age Report\par
Pie Chart Report\par
Resolution Time Report\par
Recently Created Issues Report\par
Resolved vs. Created Issues Report\par
Single Level Group by Report\par
Time Tracking Report\par
User Workload Report\par
Workload Pie Chart Report, etc.\par
10) Explain what is Cloning an Issue?\par
\par
\par
 \par
Cloning as issue allows you to create a duplicate of the original issue so that many employees can work on a single issue within a single project. The clone issue can be connected to the original issue.  A clone issue holds following the information\par
\par
Summary\par
Description\par
Assignee\par
Environment\par
Priority\par
Issue Type\par
Security\par
Reporter\par
Components, etc.\par
11) Mention what things are not included in cloned issue in JIRA?\par
\par
Time tracking\par
Issue history\par
Comments\par
12) Explain what is the use of \ldblquote Move Issue\rdblquote  wizard in JIRA?\par
\par
The move issue wizard enables you to specify another project in your JIRA instance. Move wizard permit you to change certain attributes of an issue like\par
\par
Issue Type: If your issue is a custom issue type and does not occur in your target project, you must choose a new issue type for your issue\par
Issue Status: If you have assigned your issue as a custom issue status and it does not exist in your project, you must select a new issue status for your issue\par
Custom Fields: If you have determined required custom fields for your issue, which do not occur in the target project, you must set values for them.\par
13) How security setting is helpful in JIRA?\par
\par
JIRA\rquote S security setting restricts the access to the issue to only those person who is allowed to work on the issue or a member of the chosen security level. Security level of an issue can be set either when the issue is created or when the issue is being edited\par
\par
14) Explain how you can share an issue with other users?\par
You can email an issue by using the share option in JIRA. You can also email other JIRA users a link to the issue by sharing the issue with them or by mentioning them in an issue\rquote s Description or Comment field.\par
\par
15) Explain how you can modify multiple bulk issues?\par
\par
To modify multiple bulk issues, you can use Bulk Change option from the \ldblquote Tools\rdblquote  menu of the navigator.  All the issues on the current page can be selected for the bulk operation.  The following list details the available bulk operations like\par
\par
Workflow Transition\par
Delete\par
Move\par
Edit\par
16) Explain how you can disable mail notification for Bulk Operations?\par
\par
To disable mail notification for a particular Bulk Operations, you have to de-select the \ldblquote Send Notification\rdblquote  checkbox in the bulk operation wizard.\par
\par
17) What does an issue change history include?\par
\par
Issue change history includes\par
\par
Deletion of a comment\par
Deletion of a worklog\par
Creation or deletion of an issue link\par
Attachment of a file\par
Changes to an issue field\par
18) Explain what does the three color indicates tracking times or duration for an issue?\par
\par
Three color will be displayed representing the amount of time spent behind the issue\par
\par
Original Estimate (Blue): The amount of time originally estimated to resolve the issue\par
Remaining Estimate(Orange): The remaining amount of time left to resolve the issue\par
Time Spen or Logged (Green): The amount of time spent so far while resolving the issue\par
19) Mention some of the popular add-ons for JIRA?\par
\par
Some popular add-ons for JIRA include,\par
\par
Suites utilities for JIRA\par
ScriptRunner for JIRA\par
Zephyr for JIRA \f1\endash  Test Management\par
JIRA Toolkit Plugin\par
Atlassian REST API Browser\par
Portfolio for JIRA\par
JIRA Misc Workflow Extensions\par
Tempo Timesheets for JIRA\par
JIRA Charting Plugin\par
20) Mention what is Schemes in JIRA?\par
\par
Schemes are a major part of JIRA configuration. It is a collection of configured values that can be used by one or more JIRA project. For instance, Notification Schemes, Permission Scheme, Issue Type Scheme, and so on. There are total seven types of schemes.\par
\par
21) Mention what can be configured for JIRA project and issue type?\par
\par
You can configure following things for each pair of an issue type and JIRA project.\par
\par
The order of custom fields appears on an issue screen\par
Workflow of an issue including the statuses\par
Which custom fields and system an issue can use\par
Project accessibility\par
Permissions for what a user can do with an issue\par
Versions and components available for an issue\par
22) Mention is it possible to get back up your JIRA cloud data?\par
\par
In JIRA, you can take backup of your JIRA cloud data using Backup Manager.  But only one backup file is stored at a time. The existing backup is overwritten by new ones.\par
\par
23) Mention what data can be backed up?\par
\par
The backup data includes,\par
\par
Attachments if selected\par
Users and their group settings\par
Avatars\par
Issues\par
24) Mention some useful tips on JIRA Workflow?\par
\par
As such Statuses are global objects in JIRA. Changing the name of the status on one workflow will change the status on all workflows that use that status\par
Hover over a status or transition to see the relevant transition labels\par
One cannot clone transitions in the workflow designer\par
In the workflow designer, one cannot create annotations\par
Directly you cannot set the issue.editable property.\par
25) Mention what are the limitations when editing an active workflow?\par
\par
If a workflow is active, you cannot edit the workflow name (only the description)\par
You cannot delete the workflow steps\par
A step associated status cannot be edited\par
You cannot add any new outgoing transition if a step has no outgoing transitions (Global transitions are not considered).\par
A step\rquote s Step ID cannot be changed.\par
26) In JIRA workflow, is it possible to transition an issue back to its previous status?\par
\par
Practically, it is not possible to transition an issue back to its previous status.  However, you can use \ldblquote onhold\rdblquote  feature to transition an issue back to its previous status. Here are the steps,\par
\par
In workflow, Create a global transition to the \lquote On Hold\rquote  status.\par
Now from \lquote On Hold\rquote  status create another transition to every other status you want to come back to\par
Since the transition names cannot be the same, just add a blank space at the end of it.\par
Now you don\rquote t want the status transition from the \lquote On Hold\rquote  and \lquote Done\rquote  to \lquote On Hold\rquote  So you will hide the other status \ldblquote On Hold\rdblquote  by adding the value field condition on the global transition.\par
27) Mention what is the role of Validators in JIRA?\par
\par
The Validators in JIRA checks that any input made to the transition is valid before the transition is performed.  If a validator fails, the issue will not progress to the destination status of the transition.\par
\par
28) Mention what types of Post functions are carried out after the transition is executed?\par
\par
Types of Post functions carried out after transition is executed includes\par
\par
Adding a comment to an issue\par
Generating change history for an issue\par
Updating an issue\rquote s fields\par
Generating an event to trigger email notifications\par
29) What is an event in JIRA?\par
\par
The events are classified in two a System event (JIRA defined events) and Custom event (User defined events). An event describes the status, the default template and the notification scheme and workflow transition post function associations for the event.\par
\par
30) What is Audit Log?\par
\par
Under Audit Log, you can see all the details about the issue created, and the changes made in the issues.\par
\par
31) For a Agile project, how user stories in JIRA are created?\par
\par
For Agile project to create user stories in JIRA, follow below steps.\par
\par
Issue type -Epic and Issue type \endash  Story linked to it. In order to do so, in the \lquote Create Issue\rquote  page, go to \ldblquote Configure Fields\rdblquote  and select \ldblquote Epic link\rdblquote  field to be included in the issue creation screen.\par
Or you can have a product backlog by creating a main User story and having various sub-tasks under it.\par
32) Mention what is an \ldblquote issue collector\rdblquote ?\par
\par
An \ldblquote issue collector\rdblquote  enables you to easily embed a JIRA feedback form into your own web site. This helps website visitors to log issues into JIRA through our website.  To use JIRA feedback form, visitors to our website do not need a user account in JIRA.\par
\par
33) Mention the difference between Bugzilla and JIRA?\par
\par
Bugzilla\tab JIRA\par
It is an Open Source\par
It is a commercial tool\par
Using Bugzilla might be little complicated for few due to grouping users and granting permissions\par
For some using JIRA would be more convenient than Bugzilla\par
Bugzilla allows you to show/hide the whole custom field or specific values based on the value of some other field\par
JIRA enables conditional configuration based only on Type fields and Project.\par
Bugzilla\rquote s has a powerful advanced search option\par
JIRA lacks advance-level search options. JIRA has flexible JQL language (JIRA Query Language). It enables you to build arbitrary boolean expressions.\par
Unlike JIRA, Bugzilla allows users select the initial status of a new issue.\par
Unlike Bugzilla, JIRA enables you to define multiple workflows which are applied based on the issue\rquote s Project and Type.\par
Bugzilla has only one link type: Blocks/depends and a Bug ID custom field\par
JIRA has configurable link types with user-defined semantics. JIRA enables to link an issue to any other entity outside JIRA.\par
34) Explain how you can modify multiple bulk issues?\par
\par
You can modify multiple bulk issues by using option \ldblquote Bulk Change\rdblquote  option.\par
\par
Refer our JIRA Tutorials for an extra edge in your interview.\f0\tab\par
\par
}
 